refactor(website): improve divergence notes (#1002)
biomejs/biome: website/src/content/docs/formatter/index.mdx

There are some divergences with Prettier.

### Prettier doesn't unquote some object properties that are valid JavaScript identifiers.

> Prettier and Biome unquote object and class properties that are valid JavaScript identifiers.
> Prettier [unquotes only valid ES5 identifiers](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/blob/a5d502513e5de4819a41fd90b9be7247146effc7/src/language-js/utils/index.js#L646).
> 
> In an ecosystem where ES2015 is now widespread, this seems to be a legacy restriction.
> Thus, we decided to diverge here by unquoting all valid JavaScript identifiers in ES2015+.
> 
> A possible workaround would be to introduce a configuration to set the ECMAScript version a project uses.
> We could then adjust the unquoting behaviour based on that version.
> Setting the ECMAScript version to `ES5` could match the behaviour of Prettier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prettier and Biome unquote object and class properties that are valid JavaScript identifiers.
Prettier [unquotes only valid ES5 identifiers](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/blob/a5d502513e5de4819a41fd90b9be7247146effc7/src/language-js/utils/index.js#L646).

This is a legacy restriction in an ecosystem where ES2015 is now widespread.
Thus, we decided to diverge here by un-quoting all valid JavaScript identifiers in ES2015+.

A possible workaround would be to introduce a configuration to set the ECMAScript version a project uses.
We could then adjust the un-quoting behaviour based on that version.
Setting the ECMAScript version to `ES5` could match Prettier's behaviour.
```

```js title="example.js"
const obj = {
 'a': true,
 b: true,
 "𐊧": true,
}
```

Diff

```js title="exmaple.js" del={4} ins={5}
const obj = {
  a: true,
  b: true,
  "𐊧": true,
  𐊧: true,
};
```

### Prettier has an inconsistent behavior for assignment in computed keys.

> Prettier and Biome enclose some assignment expressions between parentheses, in particular in conditionals.
> This allows to identify potentially an expression that should be a comparison.
> 
> Prettier has an inconsistent behavior, because it adds parentheses for an assignment in a computed key of an object property and doesn't for a computed key of a class property, as demonstrated by the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prettier and Biome enclose some assignment expressions between parentheses, particularly in conditionals.
This allows Biome to identify an expression that should be a comparison.

Prettier has inconsistent behaviour because it adds parentheses for an assignment in a computed key of an object property and doesn't for a computed key of a class property, as demonstrated by the following example:
```

Input

```js title="example.js"
a = {
  [x = 0]: 1,
}

class C {
  [x = 0] = 1
}
```

Diff

```js title="example.js" del={2} ins={3}
a = {
  [(x = 0)]: 1,
  [x = 0]: 1,
};

class C {
  [x = 0] = 1;
}
```

[Playground link](https://biomejs.dev/playground?enabledLinting=false&code=YQAgAD0AIAB7AAoAIAAgAFsAeAAgAD0AIAAwAF0AOgAgADEALAAKAH0ACgAKAGMAbABhAHMAcwAgAEMAIAB7AAoAIAAgACAAIABbAHgAIAA9ACAAMABdACAAPQAgADEACgB9AAoA)

> To be consistent, we decide to diverge and omit the parentheses.
> Alternatively, we could enclose any assignment in a computed key of an object or of a class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be consistent, we decided to diverge and omit the parentheses.
Alternatively, we could enclose any assignment in a computed key of an object or of a class.
```

### Prettier adds a trailing comma to type parameters of arrow functions even when it is not required.

> In some specific cases, a type parameter list of an arrow function requires a trailing comma to distinguish it from a JSX element.
> When a default type is provided, this trailing comma is not required.
> Here, we diverge from Prettier, because we think it better respects the original intent of Prettier, which was to add a trailing comma only when required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some specific cases, a type parameter list of an arrow function requires a trailing comma to distinguish it from a JSX element.
When a default type is provided, this trailing comma is not required.
Here, we diverge from Prettier because we think it better respects the original intent of Prettier, which was to add a trailing comma only when required.
```

Input

```tsx title="example.tsx"
<T = unknown>() => {};
```

Diff

```tsx title="example.tsx" del={1} ins={2}
<T = unknown,>() => {};
<T = unknown>() => {};
```

### Prettier formats invalid syntaxes

> As mentioned in a previous divergence, Prettier's Babel-based parsing for JS/TS is very loose and allows multiple errors to be ignored.
> Biome's parser intentionally has stricter rules than Prettier and correctly rejects an assignment to an optional chain.
> Biome represents this invalid assignment using a bogus node and don't try to format the assignment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in a previous divergence, Prettier's Babel-based parsing for JS/TS is very loose and allows multiple errors to be ignored.
Biome's parser intentionally has stricter rules than Prettier and correctly rejects an assignment to an optional chain.
Biome represents this invalid assignment using a bogus node, and don't try to format the assignment.
```

### Prettier formats invalid syntaxes

> Prettier's Babel-based parsing for JavaScript and TypeScript is very loose and [allows multiple errors](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/blob/e4a74c05f4502dd4ec70495c3130ff08ab088e05/src/language-js/parse/babel.js#L177-L218) to be ignored.
> Biome's parser is intentionally stricter than the Prettier parser.
> It correctly identifies the following syntax errors:
> 
> - A function cannot have duplicate modifiers
> - invalid order of properties' modifiers
> - Function declarations are not allowed to have bodies
> - non-abstract classes cannot have abstract properties
> - An optional chain cannot be assigned
> - The `const` modifier cannot be set on a type parameter of an interface
> - top-level return
> - etc.
> 
> In Prettier, these errors aren't considered parse errors, and the AST is still built "correctly" with the appropriate nodes.
> When formatting, Prettier then just treats these nodes as normal and formats them accordingly.
> 
> In Biome, the parsing errors result in `Bogus` nodes, which may contain any number of valid nodes, invalid nodes, and/or raw tokens.
> When formatting, Biome treats bogus nodes as effectively plain text, printing them out verbatim into the resulting code without any formatting, since attempting to format could be incorrect and cause semantic changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prettier's Babel-based parsing for JavaScript and TypeScript is very loose and [allows multiple errors](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/blob/e4a74c05f4502dd4ec70495c3130ff08ab088e05/src/language-js/parse/babel.js#L177-L218) to be ignored.
Biome's parser is intentionally stricter than the Prettier parser.
It correctly identifies the following syntax errors:

- A function cannot have duplicate modifiers
- invalid order of properties' modifiers
- Function declarations are not allowed to have bodies
- non-abstract classes cannot have abstract properties
- An optional chain cannot be assigned
- The `const` modifier cannot be set on a type parameter of an interface
- top-level return
- etc.

In Prettier, these errors aren't considered parse errors, and the AST is still built "correctly" with the appropriate nodes.
When formatting, Prettier treats these nodes as normal and formats them accordingly.

In Biome, the parsing errors result in `Bogus` nodes, which may contain any number of valid nodes, invalid nodes, and/or raw characters.
When formatting, Biome treats bogus nodes as effectively plain text, printing them out verbatim into the resulting code without any formatting since attempting to format them could be incorrect and cause semantic changes.
```

> For class properties, Prettier's current parsing strategy also uses boolean fields for modifiers, meaning only one of each kind of modifier can ever be present (accessibility modifiers are stored as a single string).
> When printing, Prettier just looks at the list of booleans and decides which modifiers to print out again. Biome instead keeps a list of modifiers, meaning duplicates are kept around and able to be analyzed (hence the parsing error messages about duplicate modifiers and ordering).
> When printing out the bogus nodes, this list is still kept intact, and printing out the unformatted text results in those modifiers continuing to exist.
> 
> There are ways that Biome can address this.
> One possibility is to try to interpret the Bogus nodes when formatting and construct valid nodes out of them.
> If a valid node can be built, then it would just format that node like normal, otherwise it prints the bogus text verbatim as it does currently.
> However, this is messy and introduces a form of parsing logic into the formatter that is really not meaningful.
> 
> Another option instead is to introduce some form of "syntactically-valid bogus node" into the parser, which accepts these kinds of errors that are purely semantic (duplicate modifiers, abstract properties in non-abstract classes).
> It would continue to build the nodes like normal (effectively matching the behavior in Prettier), but store them inside of a the new kind of bogus node, including the diagnostics along with it.
> When formatting, these special bogus nodes would just attempt to format the inner node, and then fallback if there's an error (the existing `format_or_verbatim` utility would do this already).
> This keeps the parsing and formatting logic separate from each other, but introduce more complexity to the parser, allowing invalid states to be considered semi-valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For class properties, Prettier's current parsing strategy also uses boolean fields for modifiers, meaning only one of each kind of modifier can ever be present (accessibility modifiers are stored as a single string).
When printing, Prettier looks at the list of booleans and decides which modifiers to print out again. Biome instead keeps a list of modifiers, meaning duplicates are kept around and can be analyzed (hence the parsing error messages about duplicate modifiers and ordering).
When printing out the bogus nodes, this list is kept intact, and printing out the unformatted text results in those modifiers continuing to exist.

There are ways that Biome can address this.
One possibility is to try to interpret the Bogus nodes when formatting and construct valid nodes out of them.
If a valid node can be built, then it would just format that node like normal, otherwise, it prints the bogus text verbatim as it does currently.
However, this is messy and introduces a form of parsing logic into the formatter that is not meaningful.

Another option is to introduce some form of "syntactically-valid bogus node" into the parser, which accepts these kinds of purely semantic errors (duplicate modifiers, abstract properties in non-abstract classes).

It would continue to build the nodes like normal (effectively matching the behavior in Prettier) but store them inside of a new kind of bogus node, including the diagnostics along with it.
When formatting, these particular bogus nodes would just attempt to format the inner node and then fallback if there's an error (the existing `format_or_verbatim` utility would do this already).
This keeps the parsing and formatting logic separate from each other but introduces more complexity to the parser, allowing invalid states to be considered semi-valid.
```
